[Add] - Foundry guide to SCs (#727)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/foundry.md

---
title: Use Foundry with Polkadot Hub
description: Learn to install, configure, and use foundry-polkadot for smart contract development on Polkadot with PolkaVM bytecode compilation.
---

# Foundry

!!! warning
    Consider that features like Anvil (Foundry's local blockchain) and `forge test` (for running Solidity tests) are not yet supported in `foundry-polkadot`.

## Overview

> Foundry is a fast, modular, and extensible toolkit for Ethereum application development, written in Rust. It provides a suite of command-line tools, such as `forge` for compiling, testing, and deploying smart contracts, and `cast` for interacting with blockchains. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Foundry is a fast, modular, and extensible toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust. It provides a suite of command-line tools, including `forge` for compiling, testing, and deploying smart contracts and `cast` for interacting with blockchains.
```

> [`foundry-polkadot`](https://github.com/paritytech/foundry-polkadot/){target=\_blank} is an adaptation specifically engineered for the Polkadot Hub, it's tailored for developers already familiar with Foundry who are seeking to leverage its capabilities within the Polkadot ecosystem. Additionally, this guide offers detailed information on the `forge` and `cast` commands supported within `foundry-polkadot`, complete with simple, runnable examples for quick reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`foundry-polkadot`](https://github.com/paritytech/foundry-polkadot/){target=\_blank} is an adaptation explicitly engineered for the Polkadot Hub, tailored for developers already familiar with Foundry who seek to leverage its capabilities within the Polkadot ecosystem. Additionally, this guide offers detailed information on the `forge` and `cast` commands supported within `foundry-polkadot`, complete with simple, runnable examples for quick reference.
```

    ```

    This command starts the installation of `foundryup-polkadot`. After installation, run the following command to download the precompiled `foundry-polkadot` binaries:

    ```bash
    foundryup-polkadot
    ```

    This command will install the `forge` and `cast` binaries, which are explained below. Windows users must use a Unix-like terminal environment such as Git BASH or Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), as PowerShell and Command Prompt are not currently supported by `foundryup`.

## Compiler Integration

A core divergence lies in the underlying Solidity compiler.

- **`foundry`** is built to interface with the `solc` compiler, which targets Ethereum's Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).
- **`foundry-polkadot`**, in contrast, introduces and primarily utilizes the `resolc` compiler to compile down Solidity contracts into PolkaVM bytecode. 
    - **Command-Line Flag**: For commands that involve compilation (e.g., `forge build`), you can use the `--resolc` flag to enable `resolc` compilation. For example:

        ```bash
        forge build --resolc
        ```

>         This instructs Forge to use `resolc` instead of `solc`, generating bytecode compatible with PolkaVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        This command instructs Forge to use `resolc` instead of `solc`, generating bytecode compatible with PolkaVM.
```

## Command-Line Interface (CLI)

`foundry-polkadot` preserves the familiar `forge` and `cast` subcommand structure. However, it's crucial to note that commands which involve compilation (such as `create`, `bind`, `build`, and `inspect`) will yield different output when `resolc` is utilized, as the generated bytecode is specifically designed for PolkaVM rather than the EVM.

## Unsupported or Modified Features

Not all functionalities from the original Foundry are present or behave identically in `foundry-polkadot`:

- **Currently Unsupported**:
    - Compilation of Yul code is not yet supported.
    - Support for factory contracts deployment is a known issue that is currently unresolved.

> - **Broader Feature Limitations**: Integration with `Anvil` and `Chisel` (Foundry's local blockchain and EVM toolkit, respectively) is not available. This directly impacts the support for several key commands, including `forge test` for running tests, `forge snapshot` for creating blockchain state snapshots, and `forge script` for complex deployment and interaction scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Broader Feature Limitations**: Integration with `Anvil` and `Chisel` (Foundry's local blockchain and EVM toolkit, respectively) is not available. This limitation directly impacts the support for several key commands, including `forge test` for running tests, `forge snapshot` for creating blockchain state snapshots, and `forge script` for complex deployment and interaction scripts.
```

- **Modified Feature**: The most notable modification is in the **compilation output**. When ``resolc`` is employed, the resulting bytecode will fundamentally differ from that generated by ``solc``, reflecting PolkaVM's distinct architectural requirements.

## Set up a Project

Initialize a new project using `forge init`:

```bash
forge init my-polkadot-project
cd my-polkadot-project
```

> This creates a complete project structure with the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates a complete project structure with the following components:
```

* **`remappings`**
    * **Command**: `forge remappings`
    * **Description**: Lists the currently configured Solidity compiler remappings.

* **`remove`**
    * **Command**: `forge remove <REPOSITORY>`
    * **Description**: Removes an installed Solidity dependency. Use `--force` to remove without confirmation.

* **`selectors upload`**
    * **Command**: `forge selectors upload [--all]`
    * **Description**: Uploads function selectors from compiled contracts to OpenChain. Use `--all` to upload for all contracts.

* **`selectors list`**
    * **Command**: `forge selectors list`
    * **Description**: Lists all known function selectors for contracts in the project.

* **`selectors find`**
    * **Command**: `forge selectors find <SELECTOR>`
    * **Description**: Searches for a function signature given its 4-byte selector.

* **`selectors cache`**
    * **Command**: `forge selectors cache`
    * **Description**: Caches function selectors for faster lookup.

* **`tree`**
    * **Command**: `forge tree`
    * **Description**: Displays the dependency tree of your Solidity contracts.

> !!!warning "Not Working Commands"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!!warning "Non-working Commands"
```

* **`storage`**
    * **Command**: `cast storage [OPTIONS] <ADDRESS> [SLOT]`
    * **Required Parameters**: `<ADDRESS>` (the contract address)
    * **Description**: Retrieves the raw value stored at a specific storage slot of a contract.

* **`tx`**
    * **Command**: `cast tx [OPTIONS] <TX_HASH>`
    * **Description**: Retrieves comprehensive details about a specific transaction.

* **`upload-signature`**
    * **Command**: `cast upload-signature [OPTIONS] <SIGNATURE_STRING>`
    * **Required Parameters**: `<SIGNATURE_STRING>` (the function or event signature)
    * **Description**: Uploads a function or event signature to the OpenChain registry.

* **`wallet`**
    * **Command**: `cast wallet new`
    * **Description**: Generates a new random Ethereum keypair (private key and address).

* **`wallet new-mnemonic`**
    * **Command**: `cast wallet new-mnemonic`
    * **Description**: Generates a new BIP-39 mnemonic phrase and derives the first account from it.

* **`wallet address`**
    * **Command**: `cast wallet address [OPTIONS]`
    * **Description**: Derives and displays the Ethereum address from a private key or mnemonic (if provided).

> !!!warning "Not Working Commands"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!!warning "Non-working Commands"
```
